---
date: 2018-09-10
title: Teachers
categories:
  - Documentation
type: Document
showSidebar: false
published: false
nav_ordering: 17
pageTitle: "Teachers"
---
## Overview

This document shows how a new domain, in this case, teacher domain is enabled using opensaber. For simplicity, the entire workflow of taking opensaber and customizing it are the following steps:
1. Creating a new RDF vocabulary of terms, if those terms are not already defined. It is considered best practice, to re-use existing vocabularies. For instance, `schema.org` defines a `Person`, so one need not redefine it, but one may choose to extend `Person` to a specific agent, in this case, a `Teacher`.
2. Understanding how to call the OpenSABER APIs.
3. Configuring a validator which uses the vocabulary to validate user input.
4. Installing and configuring OpenSABER runtime (software).

Let's take the example of starting from scratch and enabling the `Teacher` use case and installing OpenSABER as the DIKSHA Teacher Registry.

## Progression

### Learning to Define a vocabulary
#### Best Practice
Try to use the `schema.org` or equivalent vocabulary wherever applicable. If `schema.org` is insufficient (which is likely), create a RDF file and send in a Pull Request to [domains/](https://github.com/project-sunbird/open-saber/tree/master/domains){:target="_blank"} for review. While defining a vocabulary for the custom domain, you may end up creating some core classes and properties. You are encouraged to contribute to the core, via the same PR mechanism. To know, how to extend `schema.org`, read up on the web, or just study the files in `domains/` folder. Extending is fairly straightforward.
#### Core fundamentals in RDF
All information can be represented in Triples of subject, predicate and object. For instance,
```
ID 456IHO&78 is a Teacher, her name is Lakshmi and she is a PGT.
```
This can be represented in RDF (here, Turtle) as
```
opensaber:456IHO&78 a opensaber:Teacher ;
                    schema:name "Lakshmi" ;
                    opensaber:teacherTitle opensaber:PGT .
```
You can see that `opensaber:456IHO&78` is the subject and there are 3 predicates - `a` denoting type, `schema:name` denoting name and `opensaber:teacherTitle` denoting a property which in one out of PGT, TGT and lets say PRT.

`schema:name` is a short form for [http:\\schema.org\name](http:\\schema.org\name){:target="_blank"}. Everything is namespaced, so one can pick and choose properties and classes from any vocabulary which suits the domain definition. 

So, if we are starting from scratch, `schema.org` does not have the concept of a `Teacher`, so if we had to create the `Teacher` agent, we can safely assume that it will subclass from `Person`. Subclassing would mean 2 things:
1. Every instance of `Teacher` is also an instance of `Person`, which is true.
2. Every property which has a domain of `Person` will also be applicable to `Teacher`. This is really good, because common properties like `name`, etc are just already available via `Person`. Of course, there maybe many more properties than the ones you want to use, but that's ok. You can filter out the ones you need via your `validators`. RDF via nature is more inclusive than not, so be comfortable with taking all what other vocabularies bring on the table.

So, the `Teacher` RDF if it has to extend from `Person` would look like
``` json
opensaber:Teacher a rdfs:Class ;
    rdfs:label "Teacher" ;
    schema:isPartOf <http://teacher.pending.opensaber.io> ;
    rdfs:comment "A Teacher." ;
    rdfs:subClassOf schema:Person .
```
and lets say we need a new property called `teacherTitle` which is an Enumeration, like PRT, TGT, PGT, etc, all of which are actually instances of the Enumeration. So, the following is how you would create an Enumeration and list out the values of an Enumeration:
``` json
opensaber:TeacherTitle a rdfs:Class ;
    rdfs:label "TeacherTitle" ;
    rdfs:comment "An enumeration of teacher titles." ;
    rdfs:subClassOf schema:Enumeration .

opensaber:PGT a opensaber:TeacherTitle ;
    rdfs:label "PGT" ;
    rdfs:comment "Post Graduate Teacher." .

opensaber:TGT a opensaber:TeacherTitle ;
    rdfs:label "TGT" ;
    rdfs:comment "Trained Graduate Teacher." .

opensaber:PRT a opensaber:TeacherTitle ;
    rdfs:label "PRT" ;
    rdfs:comment "Primary Teacher." .

opensaber:TeacherOtherTitle a opensaber:TeacherTitle ;
    rdfs:label "TeacherOtherTitle" ;
    rdfs:comment "Other." .
```
and we can now create a new property `opensaber:teacherTitle` which can now range into any `TeacherTitle`.
```
opensaber:teacherTitle a rdf:Property ;
    rdfs:label "teacherTitle" ;
    schema:domainIncludes opensaber:Teacher ;
    schema:rangeIncludes opensaber:TeacherTitle ;
    rdfs:comment "Title of a Teacher." .
```
Putting everything together...
``` json
@prefix opensaber: <http://opensaber.io/vocab/2018/01/> .
@prefix schema: <http://schema.org/> .
opensaber:Teacher a rdfs:Class ;
    rdfs:label "Teacher" ;
    schema:isPartOf <http://teacher.pending.opensaber.io> ;
    rdfs:comment "A Teacher." ;
    rdfs:subClassOf schema:Person .
opensaber:TeacherTitle a rdfs:Class ;
    rdfs:label "TeacherTitle" ;
    rdfs:comment "An enumeration of teacher titles." ;
    rdfs:subClassOf schema:Enumeration .
opensaber:PGT a opensaber:TeacherTitle ;
    rdfs:label "PGT" ;
    rdfs:comment "Post Graduate Teacher." .
opensaber:TGT a opensaber:TeacherTitle ;
    rdfs:label "TGT" ;
    rdfs:comment "Trained Graduate Teacher." .
opensaber:PRT a opensaber:TeacherTitle ;
    rdfs:label "PRT" ;
    rdfs:comment "Primary Teacher." .
opensaber:TeacherOtherTitle a opensaber:TeacherTitle ;
    rdfs:label "TeacherOtherTitle" ;
    rdfs:comment "Other." .
opensaber:teacherTitle a rdf:Property ;
    rdfs:label "teacherTitle" ;
    schema:domainIncludes opensaber:Teacher ;
    schema:rangeIncludes opensaber:TeacherTitle ;
    rdfs:comment "Title of a Teacher." .
```

We didn't have to define the `schema:name` property since it already defined by `schema.org`.

### Teacher and Core Vocabulary

Vocabularies are never complete but the first iteration of `Teacher` and `Core` vocabularies are at [domains/](https://github.com/project-sunbird/open-saber/tree/master/domains){:target="_blank"}. Go through the RDF files. RDF files are versioned, so if you make an edit in the RDF definitions, it is considered good practice to version the files.

### Deploying OpenSABER

Read the [Installation Guide](/installation.html) for deploying OpenSABER. After deploying

### Calling the OpenSABER APIs

OpenSABER APIs can be used to perform CRUD operations on the various subjects of the same type. For instance, in a Teacher registry, the APIs are used to create, read, update or delete facts about a Teacher.

#### CREATE

The following curl command is an example of creating a Teacher:
```
```
